# Meeting Minutes - November 29

## Wendy
* Problem with collapsing phylum classifications (e.g p__fermicutes.1 and p__fermicutes.2 are identified as separate things), resulting in range of + and - values in fold change; decided to generate bar graph without removing numerical identifiers MICB475_DESeq2 PNGs.pptx
Results: abundance generally  decreases regardless of category/variable
* Also tried generating an overview with R and organised manually
	* Q: could we still conclude on phylum info with DESeq?
		* If so: Proteobacteria were present in all diet type categories, Spirochaetota were found in all gut fermentation categories, and both Bacteroidota and Firmicutes appeared consistently across all categories of both variables
	* Labeling:
		* ASVs (move to top row)
		* Instead of >0 or <0, change it to: “increase/decrease abundance” compared to wild (top)
		* Specify in title to include the reference group
		* Remember that the figure legend title is the takeaway (like a result statement)
		* Table caption add a lot of context of how the numbers came to be, like calculated by fold change 
		* Add more specifications 
* Reference supplementary in figure legends

## FIGURE ORDER
* Table 1: diet type deseq
* Table 2: gut fermentation deseq
* Figure S.1: 6 panels of deseq bar plot, labelled ABCDEF
* Table 3: summary ISA for diet type, at the phylum level, into a table similar to DESEq
* Table 4: summary ISA for gut fermentation type, at the phylum level, into a table similar to DESEq
* Figure 1: 6 panels of PICRUST2 diet type 
	* Left and right, Volcano + bar (top to bottom carnivore, herbivore, omnivore)
	* Cluster by classification instead of graph type
* Figure 2: 6 panels of PICRUST2 gut fermentation type  

## Chloe 
* PICRUSt2 Graphs & Plots - MICB 475
	* Propose that top 10 up/down regulated pathways plot and volcano plot are in main figures section, and heatmaps/pca are in supplementary
	* Remove heatmaps and pca plots entirely, change figures to group by variable (carnivore, etc.)
	* Make a table showing all up/down pathways and put on github -> need to reference in the paper when discussing overlaps between different variables
*Presentation (Captive vs. Wild Animals Presentation - MICB 475)
	* Keep same split for slides creation as paper? 
		* Background -> Tiffany
		* ISA (Taxonomic Results) -> Christine
		* DESEq2 (Taxonomic Results) -> Wendy
		* PICRUSt2 (Functional Results) -> Chloe
		* Conclusions & Future Directions -> Mya

## Tiffany
* Presentation
* Decide on a title for our paper/presentation 
* Mostly done my slides in terms of vision: feedback plz :)) 
* I’m splitting ISA and Deseq2 into 2 obj, is that ok? 
* Can we organize each aim into ABC and continue this format for results so it’s clearer?
* What does this mean (in presentation rubric): All point form text is in full statements
* Do we need references in our slides?
* Results section thoughts
	* ISA: last week, because we had so many indicator species, we were comparing the number of total indicator species for wild versus captive in every category of the variables. So in our results, should we be talking about these total numbers OR about specific species that we observe? 
	* What does indicator species results mean? → very distinct microbiome profiles. Means that the environmental factor, captivity has a major effect on the gut microbiome because the number of indicator species is so different. 
* I think we don’t include (stat = 0.993, p = 0.005) in results, is this right?

* Discussion section thoughts
	* Should we format it more as a story for each variable? Instead of separating it like ISA, then DESEq, then PICRUSt. Should we go over all of these for 1 variable so we can link the 3 techniques together and the biological relevance of our findings?
	* Should we format it more as a story for each variable? yes 
		* from Mya: should we mention specific pathways that are up/downregulated based on the top 10 from PICRUST2? → Yes, choose your pathways, look into what literature says 
		* from Mya: currently plan to include: 
			* wild has more diversity + microbe exposure
			* wild has more chances of encountering pathogens
			* perturbations to the microbiome that captivity causes may lead to health/immune/metabolic disorders

## Oral presentation
* 10mins, so maybe 10 slides excluding title + give time for teams to improvise and think
