# Meeting Minutes - October 25

## Project Overview & Divisions
* Overall, looking at effect of gut fermentation type and diet type on microbial landscape
* Dividing ISA, DESEq2, & PICRUSt2 coding portions -> can also work on synthesizing relevant portions of materials/methods that they are working on? 
  * People did do ISA for assignment 6 → look for the code frame in canvas (module 16)
  * DESEq is typically used for RNAseq data -- not a great idea to use this, lot’s of false positives, if we want to do it Ritu will forward papers and we can discuss that at next meeting what ALTERNATIVE would be ??? → decided to move forward w DESEq2
    * TA send contact + paper for DESEq alternative 
* Coding deadline Nov 15th
  * Create lab notebook for each analysis performed (ISA, DESEq2, PICRUSt2)
  * Create phyloseq object (Christine+Wendy)
  * ISA → Christine
  * DESEq2 → Wendy
  * PICRUSt2 → Chloe
* Proposal revision leads: Christine + Mya 
  * Writing → Mya, Tiffany  
* (Tiff) Open another google docs for initial manuscript, doc compiling papers related to our research topic (to prepare for discussion) → Nov 15
* (Tiff) Start presentation slides for intro material + methods → Nov 15
* Roles for other members? Forward looking in synthesizing manuscript -> introduction?
  * Abstract → do this at the end, Tiffany
  * Introduction → Mya (cut down from Wendy’s intro from proposal) by Nov 15th
  * Methods and materials → coding leads write this part; each will write the respective section for the parts they coded
  * Results → split parts later  
  * Discussion 
  * Study limitations
  * Conclusion
  * Future directions

## Presentation Dec 3 + 5
* Presenting another groups’ project based on their slides
  * We have to prepare the slides with enough info for other group to present
  * Need to know techniques: separated into taxonomic + functional analyses

## Questions
* Feedback on proposal will likely be returned next week -> mainly surrounding writing
  * Obtain opportunity to resubmit proposal after feedback is returned; deadline will be provided when feedback is returned, likely 1 week later
  * Next meeting we will be going over proposal feedback
* Rarefaction occurs in QIIME2 pipeline and in DESEq2 pipeline; Ritu will confirm if we need to do it twice as well as if we are supposed to change the parameters in RStudio
